1. What query would you run to get all the countries that speak Slovene? Your query should return the name of the country, language and language percentage. Your query should arrange the result by language percentage in descending order. (1)

SELECT country.Name, countrylanguage.Language, countrylanguage.Percentage 
FROM countrylanguage
JOIN country ON country.Code = countrylanguage.CountryCode
WHERE countrylanguage.Language = "Slovene" 
ORDER BY countrylanguage.Percentage DESC

2. What query would you run to display the total number of cities for each country? Your query should return the name of the country and the total number of cities. Your query should arrange the result by the number of cities in descending order. (3)

SELECT countries.name AS country, COUNT(cities.id) AS number_cities
FROM countries
JOIN cities ON countries.code = cities.country_code
GROUP BY countries.code
ORDER BY COUNT(cities.id) desc

3. What query would you run to get all the cities in Mexico with a population of greater than 500,000? Your query should arrange the result by population in descending order. (1)

SELECT cities.name, cities.population, cities.country_code
FROM cities
JOIN country ON country.Code = cities.country_code
WHERE cities.country_code = "MEX"
AND cities.population > 500000


4. What query would you run to get all languages in each country with a percentage greater than 89%? Your query should arrange the result by percentage in descending order. (1)

SELECT country.name, countrylanguage.Language,countrylanguage.Percentage
FROM countrylanguage
JOIN country ON country.Code = countrylanguage.CountryCode
WHERE countrylanguage.Percentage > 89 
ORDER BY countrylanguage.Percentage DESC

5. What query would you run to get all the countries with Surface Area below 501 and Population greater than 100,000? (2)

select Name, SurfaceArea,Population from country
WHERE SurfaceArea < 501
AND Population > 100000

6. What query would you run to get countries with only Constitutional Monarchy with a capital greater than 200 and a life expectancy greater than 75 years? (1)

select Name, GovernmentForm, Capital, LifeExpectancy from country
WHERE GovernmentForm = "Constitutional Monarchy"
AND LifeExpectancy > 75
AND Capital > 200

7. What query would you run to get all the cities of Argentina inside the Buenos Aires district and have the population greater than 500, 000? The query should return the Country Name, City Name, District and Population. (2)

-- SELECT countries.name AS country_name, cities.name AS city_name, cities.district, cities.population 
-- FROM cities 
-- JOIN countries ON cities.country_id = countries.id 
-- WHERE countries.name = 'Argentina' and cities.district = 'Buenos Aires' and cities.population > 500000

8. What query would you run to summarize the number of countries in each region? The query should display the name of the region and the number of countries. Also, the query should arrange the result by the number of countries in descending order. (2)

-- SELECT region, COUNT(id) AS number_countries
-- FROM countries
-- GROUP BY region 
-- ORDER BY COUNT(id) desc

